# 2022_MM_Portfolio
This repository holds a portfolio of my work, which focuses on biomechanics, wearable technologies (inertial measurement units, force-measuring instrumented insoles), bioinformatics, and machine learning.

# 2019 - 01 Amino Acid Quantification for DMC Technologies
In 2019, for my engineering capstone project at Dartmouth, I collaborated with a group for 6 months to create a novel amino acid quantification assay using molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) and gold nanoparticles for DMC Biotechnologies (https://dmcbio.com/). DMC Biotechnologies sells a Dynamic Metabolic Control technology, which is a precise fermentation process optimized for product formation. Typically they leverage the industry standard, ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) to quantify fermentation products, including amino acids. However, UPLC are low-throughput, costly, and require complex customizations for new analytes. My team created a sensor using MIPs for amino acid analyte separation and capture, and gold nanoparticle agglomeration and optical transduction for analyte quantification. The novel assay was low cost, easy to manufacture for new analytes, and showed high accuracy. The assays repeatedly showed a linear plasmonic response with concentrations between 0.005 and 1.05 g/L with an R2 value greater than 0.95. My key role on the team consisted of developing a data processing and anlytics pipeline for the assay, including running power tests to determine for a particular analyte, how many samples were needed to quantify at a certain level of precision.

# 2022 - 01 - Walking v StairMaster Hip Angles
This upload includes a script (.py) and output plots (.png). The script aggregates OpenSim inverse kinematics results (https://simtk-confluence.stanford.edu:8443/display/OpenSim/Getting+Started+with+Inverse+Kinematics) across 15 health subjects and two activities (walking: 2mph, stair ascent on a StairMaster: level 8). It then plots ensemble-averaged (averaged across subject gait cycles; heel strike = 0%) hip flexion, adduction, and internal rotation using seaborn relplot. The shaded area represents standard deviation rather than confidence intervals.

# 2022 - 02 - Activity Classification Manuscript - IMU & Decision Trees
In 2019, I conducted a study which combined wearable technologies with machine learning for activity classification. I fitted 10 subjects with inertial measurement units (IMUs), which are secured to body segments to capture time series acceleration, angular velocity, and magnetic field strength. Subjects wore IMUs for 8 hours and maintained an activity log (i.e. 'walking for 30s', 'sitting for 1hr', etc.). Using custom Matlab scripts, I cleaned the data and labeled it using subjects' activity logs for training supervised machine learning (ML) algorithms. I found decision trees achieved accurate results with short computation times, as well as being simpler to interpret and explain compared to other ML types. More specifically, an 'optimized' approach which first determined whether subjects were sedentary or non-sedentary and then identified sub-activities (e.g. sitting, walking, running) performed best, achieving >80% accuracy during full eature cohort training. This upload is a manuscript I drafted for submission to the ASME Journal of Biomechanics in 2020.

# 2022 - 03 - CMS Open Payments (General Payments) in 2019 by Industry Payer

This upload includes a script (.py) and an output plot (.png). The plot demonstrates the count of payments and sum of payments made by industry payers in 2019 to covered CMS (Center for Medicare and Medicaid) recipients, including physicians and teaching hospitals. The general payments dataset is 8Gb, so the script leverages chunking to pull a subset of columns for this quick visualization exercise. CMS Open Payments seeks to make industry payments to healthcare institutions and providers more transparent. More information about the Open Payments program is available here: https://www.cms.gov/openpayments.
